# Red Hat Summit 2023: Vote App Lab Overview - Walkthrough

In this section, we'll take a look at the architecture that this lab will be using.

.Architecture
image::https://github.com/cedricclyburn/vote-app-gitops/raw/main/images/demo-architecture.png[Architecture]

NOTE: Everything has already been pre-installed on your cluster, so there's no need to do anything here. This is just for reference.

## Lab Architecture

To run this lab, we're using an OpenShift 4.12 cluster. This cluster has been pre-configured with the following:

### Operators

#### OpenShift Pipelines 
*OpenShift Pipelines* is a cloud-native, continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) solution for building pipelines using Tekton. Tekton is a flexible, Kubernetes-native, open-source CI/CD framework that enables automating deployments across multiple platforms (Kubernetes, serverless, VMs, etc) by abstracting away the underlying implementation details.

Follow these instructions in order to install OpenShift Pipelines on
OpenShift via the OperatorHub:

- From the left-side menu under *Administrator* perspective, go to
*Operators*-> *OperatorHub*. In the search box, search for _pipelines_,
then click to *OpenShift Pipelines Operator*:

.OperatorHub
image::prerequisites_operatorhub.png[OperatorHub]

- From the description view, click _Install_ to review all installation
settings.

.Install Pipelines
image::../assets/images/prerequisites_operatorhub_install_pipelines.png[Install
Pipelines]

- Ensure _Update Channel_ is set to _stable_ , and click _Install_ to
start installing the Operator.

.Install Operator
image::../assets/images/prerequisites_operatorhub_install_operator.png[Install
Operator]

- After few seconds, the installation should be completed with success and
you can verify it looking at _Status_ column, check if the status is
_Succeeded_.

.Pipelines Installed
image::../assets/images/prerequisites_operatorhub_pipelines_installed.png[Pipelines
Installed]

#### OpenShift GitOps

*OpenShift GitOps* is a GitOps operator for OpenShift that provides a declarative, GitOps oriented approach to managing applications and their delivery. It provides a set of core GitOps operators and APIs for declaratively managing your cluster configuration and application delivery using Git as the source of truth.

Follow these instructions in order to install OpenShift GitOps on
OpenShift via the OperatorHub.

- Log into OpenShift Web Console as a cluster admin and navigate to the
*Administrator* perspective and then *Operators* → *OperatorHub*.

.OpenShift GitOps Operator
image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/siamaksade/openshift-gitops-getting-started/1.1/images/gitops-01.png[OpenShift
GitOps Operator]

- From the description view, click _Install_ to review all installation
settings.

.OpenShift GitOps operator
image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/siamaksade/openshift-gitops-getting-started/1.1/images/gitops-02.png[OpenShift
GitOps Operator]

- After few seconds, the installation should be completed with success and
you can verify it looking at _Status_ column, check if the status is
_Succeeded_.

.OpenShift GitOps Operator
image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/siamaksade/openshift-gitops-getting-started/1.1/images/gitops-03.png[OpenShift
GitOps Operator]

#### Openshift Dev Spaces
*Openshift Dev Spaces* is a cloud-native, developer workspace server and IDE for OpenShift. It allows developers to quickly create cloud-native applications by allowing them to focus on coding while the tooling takes care of the rest.

Follow these instructions in order to install OpenShift GitOps on
OpenShift via the OperatorHub.

Log into OpenShift Web Console as a cluster admin and navigate to the
*Administrator* perspective and then *Operators* → *OperatorHub*.

In the *OperatorHub*, search for _Openshift Dev Spaces_ and follow the
operator install flow to install it.

In the Red Hat Openshift Dev Spaces pop-up window, click the *Install*
button.

.OpenShift DevSpaces
image::https://github.com/blues-man/vote-app-gitops/raw/main/images/codeready-installation.png[CRW]

// Add in web terminal operator

### Lab overview

Your cluster is already configured with the appropriate OpenShift project, configured secrets and service accounts, and necessary Git repositories. From here, we can wrap up the overview and begin our lab!